blogpost draft about EPPD criteria (#471)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2021-09-11-eppd-provider-criteria.md

---
title: What Makes a Good E-Mail Provider?
author: missytake, jette
image: ../assets/blog/2021-05-html-mail.jpg
---

> What provider should I use for Delta Chat? I hear this question so often that

Reviewer: maybe better use "we" form generally

there should be something in the [FAQ](help). But it's not so easy to answer.

> Everyone has different needs. So how to make this decision?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everyone has different needs. So how to go about the issue of recommending providers?
```

about different e-mail providers, e.g. easy registration, provider connectivity
and constraints.

This should make it easy to choose which e-mail provider serves your needs
best. It might even increase competition among providers.

## Different Criteria for Different Needs

To find out performance criteria, we asked 10 Delta Chat power users and
multiplicators from all over the world, what they need from a provider - and
what their communities like about different providers. This is the full list of
criteria we identified:

### Performance criteria

1. How much delay is between sending and receiving a message through various providers? 
2. Does a provider systematically block e-mails from other (smaller or larger) providers? 
3. How many recipients per message are allowed  (limits group size)?
4. How many messages per hour are accepted until a rate limit is reached and messages are rejected?
5. What is the max. attachment size for a message?
6. Does the provider send quota warnings and efficient means for removing messages from server?
7. Does the provider support SMTP and IMAP and has a valid TLS?
8. Does the provider support IDLE /MOVE/ IMAP and quota extension?

> 9. Does the provider support alias and/ or plus extension?

Reviewer 2: might need examples and/or explanation for normal people to understand.

12. How many people manage the provider? (risk of overload for smaller providers?)
13. What is the mailbox storage size?
14. Grey-listing: does the provider delay initial messages from unknown senders? 
15. Is there published information about rate limits?
16. Privacy Policy: Which personal data is required for account creation?
17. Privacy Policy: What data is used for third parties, advertisers?
18. Migration: Can I set a forwarding alias address?
19. Migration: Can all data, including contacts and messages (folders) be exported and imported from one provider to another?

We can now evaluate providers after these criteria and publish the answers on
[providers.delta.chat](https://providers.delta.chat). We will start with 20
popular providers from different countries, and aim to add more in the future.

There were some other criteria which were too complicated to measure, but still
interesting: e.g. where the servers of a provider are based, and with which
jurisdiction it has to comply; or whether they collaborated with governments in
the past, as it just caused an outcry in a [case against climate
activists](https://protonmail.com/blog/climate-activist-arrest/). Unfortunately

> we can't really use this information for the database.

Reviewer 2: that sentence somehow triggers a "Why?" question, even though the answer "too complicated to measure" is provided above, maybe you can find more clear wording for it.
